Title: Quotes
Date: 2023-03-21
Status: Draft

# Quote Collection

These were posted in our chair's Slack channel. I am collecting them here for easy reference.

> How to get new ideas?
> The way to get new ideas is to notice anomalies: what seems strange, or missing, or broken? You can see anomalies in everyday life (much of standup comedy is based on this), but the best place to look for them is at the frontiers of knowledge. Knowledge grows fractally. From a distance its edges look smooth, but when you learn enough to get close to one, you'll notice it's full of gaps. These gaps will seem obvious; it will seem inexplicable that no one has tried x or wondered about y. In the best case, exploring such gaps yields whole new fractal buds.

~ P. Graham (Funder of, e.g., Airbnb, Stripe, Dropbox, Reddit)


> But by totally random luck we were trained as math students in calculus, and I learned a few things that were eventually useful for becoming a theoretician. Without that I probably would have had zero chance to pass. These days the kids are much more talented: From high school on they are more gifted mathematicians than I was when I came to this country.

~ S. Teng (Two times winner of the Gödel prize, computer scientist)

> When I decided to pursue serious science, I naturally sought to learn from the best mathematicians. I was fortunate to study with P.S. Uryson, P.S. Alexandrov, V.V. Stepanov, and N.N. Luzin, who I think should be considered my main teacher in mathematics. However, they "found" me only in the sense that they evaluated the work I brought to them. The "goal of life" for a teenager or young man should, in my opinion, be found by oneself. Senior [people] can only help with this.

~ Andrey Kolmogorov (citation is translated from here)

> One of my professors during PhD used to say “You can drive a truck through the holes in any given paper. So you look for what you *can* learn instead.” And being the smartass grad students we used to think driving that truck was fun. After so many years, I now appreciate her wisdom more than ever. All scholarly work has limitations but it’s refreshing when people critically evaluate what’s the actual value of the research. It's about humility, honesty, rigorous intellectual work.

~ Berna Devezer (cat owner, also does some research)

> The advanced reader who skips parts that appear too elementary may miss more than the less advanced reader who skips parts that appear too complex.

~ G. Polya (Hungarian mathematician, author of "How to solve it"; I wholeheartedly recommend reading it)

> The great nineteenth-century mathematician Jacobi believed, as E. T. Bell put it in Men of Mathematics, that young mathematicians ought to be pitched "into the icy water to learn to swim or drown by themselves. Many students put off attempting anything on their own account till they have mastered everything relating to their problem that has been done by others. The result is that but few ever acquire the knack of independent work."

~ from "The man who knew infinity", a biography of Ramanujan.

> Peer-reviewed journals used to be means of dissemination of knowledge. Now they are barriers.

~ T. Gowers (fields medalist; obtained for linking functional analysis with combinatorics)

> Call me a relic, call me what you will..., but I still like that old-time blackboard talk, the kind of math that stimulates the mind (and soothes the soul!).I have never been to an understandable power-point talk, and to very few (previously-prepared) transparency talks. Sometimes, in the hands of masterful speakers, these high-tech talks are really entertaining, and if the speaker is really good, he or she can convey the spirit. But even these talks (with the possible execption of Ron Graham and Xavier Viennot) would be even better if they were given with a blackboard. But for less-than-masterly speakers, the quality of a blackboard talk is orders-of-magnitude more understandable, and often also more entertaining than a power-point or even an over-head-projector talk.The problem with transparencies and especially power-point is the baud-rate. The speakers try to squeeze several months of work (and sometimes a whole life-time of research) into an hour (and often just into twenty or even ten minutes). So in a typical conference or seminar, you just sit there and nod politely, but usually you don't have a clue.Blackboard talks force the speakers to say the essential, and explain everything clearly. High-tech talk is just a core-dump. [...]

~ D. Zeilberger (credits his computer "Shalosh B. Ekhad" as co-author; the book "Concrete Mathematics" by D. Knuth has a section on one of his algorithms, "generatingfunctionology" by H. Wilf explains the Wilf-Zeilberger pairs - I  highly recommend both for the study of discrete mathematics / introduction to combinatorics) 

> The book was an instant success. It was, I believe, the world’s first dictionary of integer sequences (and my original title said Dictionary rather than Handbook). Many people said “What a great idea”, and wondered why no one had done it before. Martin Gardner recommended it in the Scientific American of July 1974. Lynn A. Steen, writing in the American Mathematical Monthly said “Incomparable, eccentric, yet very useful. Contains thousands of ‘well-defined and interesting’ infinite integer sequences together with references for each ... If you ever wondered what comes after 1, 2, 4, 8, 17, 35, 71, . . ., this is the place to look it up”.

~ N. J. A. Sloane ("A Handbook of Integer Sequences" Fifty Years Later (source); the OEIS does not seem to widely known at the chair)

> I’m learning quickly, immersing myself in the stuff, absorbing it like a child soaking up a foreign language. Humbly, without pretending to know much of anything, I’m teaching myself basic concepts that physicists have known for half a century.…

~ Cedric Villani (2010 Fields medalist) upon learning new basics for solving problems. He already was a respected mathematician at the time the quote describes.Underlines once more that even the gurus sharpen their understanding of the very basics of their respective craft in order to succeed.

> Some calculus tricks are quite easy. Some are enormously difficult. The fools who write the text books of advanced mathematics --- and they are mostly clever fools --- seldom take the trouble to show you how easy the easy calculations are. On the contrary, they seem to desire to impress you with their tremendous cleverness by going about it in the most difficult way.Being myself a remarkably stupid fellow, I have had to unteach myself the difficulties, and now beg to present to my fellow fools the parts that are not hard. Master these thoroughly, and the rest will follow. What one fool can do, another can.

~ Sylvanus P. Thompson in Calculus Made Easy (edited) Found in the preface of Tom Körner's Fourier Analysis.

> Some people think that mathematics is a serious business that must always be cold and dry; but we think mathematics is fun, and we aren't ashamed to admit the fact. Why should a strict boundary line be drawn between work and play?

~ Graham, Knuth, and Patashnik (Concrete Mathematics)

> Donald Knuth is the living god of computer science. As one of my colleagues put it, “If Knuth were to walk into the hall in the middle of a lecture, everyone would bow down before him.”

~ C. Villani

> "Thinking fast and slow" by Kahneman: Everyone reads it and tries to gain key insights. But then at work: "Thinking slow...".

~ Balduin (Mat. Sci., colleage of Daniel)
